hello fellow dendrites I'm Pruitt and
this is Jim Davis and some might see it
as cold-blooded to shed the trappings of
man flesh but there is one out there
who's not gonna turn down your worship
it is dinne dar he will eat the Sun and
he will make a new place for all yon tea
on web DM this episode is brought to you
by the dungeon craft Kickstarter live
now build your own battle maps in no
time at all by using over a thousand
pieces of gorgeous terrain they're a
cool-looking easy to store and
affordable way to level up your combat
each book consists of reversible pieces
for building dungeons cityscapes and
wilderness along with all the creatures
you need to run your game
they've even got companion books for
battles on the high seas or in hell they
send us an early prototype and they are
useful it's all get up so check out link
here and in the description Jim once
again first of all tunnel snakes rule
tunnel snakes rule just wanted to get
that out of the way we're talking about
you on t1t you you want e I prefer
personally snake people serpent folk why
would you know what they call themselves
the scaled ones scaly kind people of you
there's a lot of different sort of names
for them of course there's a lot of our
own history and conspiracy theories you
can draw from when dealing with
reptilian humanoids such as yawn team I
British have a whole thing about
reptilian people this is probably one of
my favorite of like monstrous peoples of
a big fan of like pulp fantasy and so
the stories have say the serpent man of
Valusia
in the king called stories or the
various serpent people that show up in
different conan tales or mythos horror
it's just like alright I'm here for this
yeah give me give me all kinds of snake
people whether they got snake arm snakes
for heads lower bodies of snakes cut
them open snake spill out of them give
it to me
I'm here for yeah they're like rushing
nesting monsters just snakes within
snakes snakes are just kind of like
tentacles another way of doing a cosmic
or thing I think probably for me it's
because I am not a particular fan of
snakes they're just one of those animals
that I look at it
like man I hope we never meet each other
and because I've lived in Texas that's
not the case and rattlesnakes I've run
into too many of them in my life water
moccasins water moccasins copperheads
it's one of those animals that you're
like okay you got to stay away from this
is the serpent it's a snake you know
there's strong mythological and mystical
symbolism to them and not always was it
bad like not all snakes were seen as
wise it's just one of those things where
I finally have such rich potential and
they are an antagonist in Dungeons and
Dragons
that I think works really well you could
substitute them for drow you can
substitute them for tea flings they've
got that we used to be humans at one
point but we did something terrible to
ourselves I like that aspect of them
particularly because it's it's one of
those things of just like this this
could be you given enough time and
enough bad to say bad decisions yeah
this could be you too this could be you
too and if you get caught by them and
they feel like that you would be a
worthy addition to their society they
can turn you into one of them they can
create an abomination or a Malazan out
of you and now you're just you've had
your emotions too stripped from you and
you've been suffuse dwith serpentine
magics and praised endar eat the Sun
praise didn't are the term morality tale
has a whole new connotation when it
comes to being turned into a snake
person because it is that that whole
like this ancient empire like they at
one point they were the they were the
top and now they're there they're hiding
in the muck waiting for their chance
waiting for their channel rise again I
find like the auntie of say the
Forgotten Realms really inspiring and
that country of them was calling you
know Raja or something like that around
the serpent hills and the high more
these are like dry dusty hills and
they're riddled with all these tunnels
where they live and then there's like
this sulfurous mud flats nearby you can
just imagine these like serpent people
that have evolved to live in this
environment and they're used to just the
steam and the sulfur and the poison of
it and they're just waiting there and
it's like you got everybody's got to
stay out of here do not come do not come
around here this is our place we are a
country that that is in this world and
and sort of like trying to revitalize
their fallen Empire
and of course there must be up to no
good which is why it's great source of
adventure or there's the auntie that are
in Choate that you might use for your
own games it's like they are the
descendants of whatever indigenous
Empire was there that has long fallen
and replaced by other successions of
empires yeah you guys like did this to
yourselves and I think that's why I like
you auntie is that whereas I look at
like orcs and goblins and and and all
the others and it's like someone did
something to them and now they've just
had so long of a bad run of it that
they're the evil guys no yawn T you guys
did this to yourself
like you know like you're the ones who
started worshipping these gods you're
the ones that transformed yourselves and
they in this manner they're the one that
rip your emotions from you and and made
you this sort of like cold calculating
monster and that's what's interesting
about it I'm role played a yawn T before
yes and that was the most interesting
part I think trying to roleplay a
superior emotionless just no empathy no
sympathy you still have to work with
these people I think there's a few
inspirations from from pop culture that
you can draw on I know I drew I drew
from a more evil version of Q where it's
just you almost think of these things
it's just like yeah it's it's it's
whatever but it's it's almost I would
hate to say fun because they don't have
emotions right but you know just being
around these makes them kind of feel
better because it's proof of his own
superiority another more recent would be
from the Orville Isaac who's the robot
who's the completely superior but
emotionless it's a great like watching
that it's like oh yeah that's that's Y
on t and then the last one I think of
Sherlock Holmes just the mentality of
just having to deal with these idiots
that you're surrounded by constantly I
mean just like you're not even a human
it could be something to kind of draw
from from a role-playing perspective
really got to stretch yourself in these
because this is an option that if you
take it similar to say drow or tea
flings or depending on what the way it
works are portrayed in your world have a
conversation about it with your group
because you know the group might
appreciate like having a spy in their
midst or someone who's just kind of like
yeah I'm tolerating being with you and
you know well we'll see how long this
lasts so in that sense I think like
they're very
pendant on like party composition and
what kind of campaign you're playing but
that's just if you're trying to use like
baseline the aunty you know you reskin
these guys and just about any any way
you want and he'll they do every spring
alright there we go transformed humans
the decisions of an ancient magical
society that they worship snakes and
wanted to become more like them the
potential for a reborn conflict that's
millennia old that now that these like
hibernating serpent people are returning
to activity they're going to revive
those conflicts yeah we went into you
know hibernation for eons to skip ahead
far enough in time so that you know we
would be in a position to rebuild our
empire we wouldn't have any competition
from other big empires out there and
they looked forward in time or just like
yeah we put ourselves into sleep then
we'll wake up and erupted from the
ground are these giant breeding pits and
snakes the world is made a little bit
better for them to live in yeah I'd be a
little hotter more humid they weighed
out geological epochs that are
incompatible with their physiology and
but I've always wanted to create a
monster that vacillates between life and
undeath when they want to go into
hibernation they transform themselves
into a type of undead but when they're
ready to re-emerge and and be active in
the world they revitalize themselves
someone that has if you conceive of save
necrotic energy more like balancing and
kind of act and and and you know they
change their internal balance so that
it's more like say dark necromancy and
then whenever they're ready to come out
they change it to light necromancy and
then they're sort of like suffused with
healing magic in life and shed their
mummified dry snake skin to emerge
pristine and glistening ready to greet
the world as its next I am a snake so
you see something like that you come
across a hibernation chamber of them the
presence of fresh blood awakens them
before they're ready the meet creatures
have arrived
let us awake from our slumber and have
breakfast if that was the case then like
maybe they would seed the world with
clues as to their whereabouts so that
people will come to try to find them
therefore ensuring that they have
something to eat when they are ready
those are more maybe away diems with
what would conceive of them
what about s'more player option
the fact that they they do want to add
to their empire so they have that whole
like capture not kill mentality like at
least there that's a way to ease into a
party when we played there were well
there were two aunties and it drew it
right and the Giroud kind of been out of
it for a bit so it was more like the
auntie looked at each other and then
looked at him it's like well at least
we'll have some meat in case we've run
out of other meat with us like we
literally looked at you as like our
reserve for observers yes so let's keep
him alive outside of a party where
two-thirds of the party is comprised of
beyond tea I mean I could see how
sometimes that might be a little rough
to introduce into a normal like we're
heroic adventuring party and this is re
aunty just don't worry about him yeah
unless they were playing some kind of
like illusionist enchanter they had some
disguise self or maybe they're a warlock
of jinn dark and they take disguise self
they never appear as a young team I mean
to me that would be the heart of a
yachty right like deception is is their
thing I would love to play that because
when that secret finally got out you
want to talk about drama
you want talk about story at the gaming
table you're just embedding it for ten
adventures down the road and it could be
that like time away from the auntie and
time away from their ritual
cannibalistic practices from their
serpent magic from all of that life in a
deep undercover as a as a spy for them
like they all know that you run the risk
of like reversion and like your emotions
coming back but it's a risk right and so
those Y on t that go out into the world
to spy or gather information or
something like that like maybe they are
seen as disposable in that way by their
superiors and it's like yeah you provide
us valuable information but when you
come back from the outside world you
will be tainted you will not be welcomed
back in here because you're no longer
pure you've been swimming amongst the
muck you know these mongrel creatures we
were at the height of our civilization
they were just swinging through the
trees kind of thing you know like that
you which of those liberal cities and I
think you learned off to live with
people how dare you it's ripe for
potential and you get that kind of like
outcast from an evil society if you're
looking to do that and you don't want to
do the more traditional half work or
drow jaunty is available for that or you
could even just be like they're not
sinister they're just like snake people
and they're just weird and they're not
the first player option that has like
emotionless as part of their thing right
there's several of like lizard folk have
sort of an alien mindset like that
kobolds or forged you could place a
dragon born that way depending on how
you see the relationship between them
and Dragons and even something like
Ravnica the the vettel can I believe
they have that kind of same very
cerebral we removed our sort of emotions
and our different kind of person Simek
hybrids it was similar alive I don't
even know what that would be but maybe
it is one of those things where it's
like you're the magic still has to fight
against you know your natural
inclinations and if you if you don't
renew it through these ritual practices
in their society then maybe you do
revert that's the reason why they just
send these low people on the totem pole
out into the world the pure blood cuz
there's a more snake you look like the
more power you have in their society so
if you just look like a person that you
got like little fangs or there were some
scales behind the ears for like slit
eyes I like them for for not just like
snake people but like as this is a human
that's experimented on themselves to
some degree I in lamb between two rivers
yon tear often the product of Vavoom
answers most things in lamb treat two
rivers are both its thing you know there
are you aunty there but then I will also
take them and rescan them for other
things so they represented wastelanders
that it had something done to them or
did it to themselves when it comes to
picking what kind of like if your snake
people what kind of snake like there's
so many different kinds of snakes you
could you could come from a Yan T coral
snake like with the you know red black
and yellow stripes
you know what would that look like or
like a Diamondback of a black adder you
know I mean these are these are all
different because I think I went with a
black mamba for Salazar yeah that was
the base for him yes I like the black
and the red and there's so many
different varieties I would play more of
their interaction with what how how evil
they are based off the kind of snake if
there's just like a like a grass snake
there from you know some grasslands they
just want to be left alone they just you
know do their thing they hunt small prey
they could be anything it could be
anything yeah you could have great big
constrictor snakes and maybe you switch
around their stats a little bit you know
give a strength instead of say charisma
you know take away their poison
unity and poison spray and maybe give
them like a bonus to grapple or
something like that and now you've got
light bill a powerful bill now you've
got wise beyond their years because they
live for forever kind of snake person a
a a someone who's maybe seen as a sage
their emotionless 'no cysteine as an
asset and it's like yeah they we found a
place for them they recognize the value
of being part of our society and we take
advantage of their different
perspectives we appreciate the fact that
this you know this group of very slow
very methodical very patient Reptoids
have something to offer us because they
think right and with that different way
of thinking that lack of emotion they're
of course less likely to get rattled oh
I'm talking like other serpent type
creatures that they might be connected
with the one that immediately comes to
mind is Nagas of course whether it's
antagonistic or cooperative Hydra would
be one even just like dragons you know
like there's all sorts of creatures in
the monster mail that like different
versions of dragons don't have legs and
they're more like serpent I mean like
more like Chinese dragons make sense to
that you can just kind of trim a little
bit and you know these guys they're just
like kind of the coal bulbs instead of
cobalt Stu dragon you could very much be
that they are the ones that are the true
descendants of that instead of saved
kobolds or a dragon born or you could
just sort of like mix them all together
and just say like these are the Reptoids
we've got portals we've got you on tea
we've got lizard folk and kobolds and
dragon born one of the things i like
sort of about Tiamat from her you know
mythological origins is the idea of like
yeah she's just like hanging out with
Abzu and a bunch of gods came along and
killed her husband and now she's just
like pissed about it and she'd rather be
just like asleep and chilling out in the
oceans it's only just like the
chattering of these mice nothing furry
creatures don't even lay eggs they give
grosses it to give birth to live young
with milk like how disgusting is that
like maybe that's just the basis for it
so a little mammalian all of these
Reptoid people's are put on the earth to
just like cleanse it of all these
mammals and make it safe for dragons and
and serpent kind again because they just
breed like well they breed like mammals
the concepts that you can you can make
with this character given the traits
especially that that charisma int yeah
bonus it's a little weird if they're
emotionless why they have a charisma
bonus unless it's like their lack of
emotion makes them more adept at
manipulating others right well they're
just standoffish I mean it's the
ultimate like Dow of Steve or whatever
like since they they don't show any
interest everybody you know nature
abhors a vacuum they're just constantly
making people they're the ultimate bad
boys right just reminds me of my father
your father had scales well nobody no
charisma is there because this is really
one where I feel like they want you to
play like warlocks and sorcerers or just
any kind of real casting because I mean
a little bump to in also I mean you
could be a wizard what game was we were
running where someone playing like a
auntie mystic I was Josh in the he had
like giant growth and and he took all
the spells all the powers are like let
him change his physical form and say you
just like turn it like a giant
constrictors and just enormous least
spit I remember I'm soloing that Lich
for a while so there was that that's
maybe one way to do it that that they
just represent any kind of like ant
based caster maybe you flip it around
it's plus two n plus one charisma I just
took that that charisma bonus and made a
paladin oh yeah because you know
everything else who cares but at least I
can put my lower stat in charisma and it
won't be as low it's the way I saw it I
told my invisible son character was a
serpent person she called upon the
serpent it was like one of the things
that I had for for her was like heard
the spells that she would have selected
would be reflected in the color of her
scales an invisible son every school of
magic has a color associated with it
right so maybe you can like translate
something like that to D&D and if you've
got like a sorcerer or a wizard jaunty
and they do have scales or something
like that that may be the kind of magic
that they're proficient in is reflected
in arcane patterns runes on their scales
that changes over time you could do that
with say a draconic lineage sorcerer
angle like well maybe it's we're gonna
like slightly reskin this and maybe pick
you know energy type that fits
more like serpent the wings are gonna be
like feathered wings you know so you get
that sort of like multicolored cosmic
serpents feel to them now I've talked
myself into into a TV character you can
peyten up and play up that magical
element to them the fact that they do
have this strong connection with magic
and like you can like lean into that and
make them more than just people with
like snake features that they are
magical snake creatures really find
inspiration in the mythology and the
like of you know serpent gods too to
make a Castro den Darby praised in Darby
Perez I like a good mythology that
involves a cosmic serpent you know like
shedding its scales and creating stars
and planets the first God's being bon
mots and demons and their conflicts
fuelling like the creation of worlds and
mountains and rivers and things the
first Celestials being massive serpents
that that come and live in the world and
like in part the the wisdom of the gods
two people maybe it's not like a
reptilians versus mammalians thing but
it's like the Reptoids were the first
people here and they see it as their
responsibility to like Usher everyone
and into that we were rushing in talking
about concepts with with with the traits
but we can go ahead and move into that
because I like I already said charisma
plus two and plus one they get dark
vision Hey why wouldn't they why
wouldn't I have snakes can see in the
dark the trend that is as of late which
is the innate spell casting of these
player races that's the new hotness that
is the new hottest thing is it's old but
it's still like you know it seems like
half of them now getting poison spray as
a canned trip it's a it's one of those
canned trips I find that people usually
don't take but when you have it yeah
like I used it quite a bit if you don't
have a you know a class that has
something like that then it could be
handy poison is one of those damage
types that if you're looking at just
like pure numbers and break down along
with fire one of those that's really
commonly resisted by monsters and the
like I think a lot of people discount it
or or don't like consider it as maybe an
option or something but having access to
it certainly thematic there's all
different ways you can reskin it the big
thing with any kind of innate spell
casting is the to answer the question
are these actual spells as in does this
person have to do the Josh
sure's say the words use the material
components can it be counter spelled can
it be dispelled like is it a spell or is
it just using spells as a way to
shorthand a special ability to me that's
always something I want to answer and
it's one of those things where it's like
any kind of innate spell casting whether
it's you on tea or furl bogs or drow or
something like that more inclined to say
like this is a consequence of the magic
inherent in you and like spells
represent the ability of someone that
doesn't have inherent magic working
their magic
you've got poison spray because you're a
snake person you have a poison gland in
your jaw and you constrict your muscles
in your mouth and shoot it out even the
animal friendship with snakes is a
consequence of all different of just
like some of its training some of its
like a very subtle form of magic maybe
it's that all of these serpents are
really super intelligent and we just
listened to them and talked to them then
maybe we don't get along we're trying to
do is tell us how to how to change our
lives for the better and we run away
screaming I do love that hold the animal
friendship with snakes like at will and
it's so formatic and I think we carried
around just a bag of snakes because at
any time when we would need some I hate
animal friendship go do a thing but then
suggestion once a day which this kind of
goes back to I just think of Jungle Book
oh yeah just the spirally eyes and just
this is it you snakes you got it you got
to watch him like suggestions kind of
that it does play into that sort of like
a reverse of the snake charmer archetype
but it is that the the mystical the yeah
don't just they're just gonna talk to
you and you'll do something it's not
overt there's nothing necessarily flashy
about it it's that creepiness it's the
subtlety it's the deception that makes
you aunty so fun to play even if they're
even if they're like play along and
they're good like they might just be
mistaken like oh you're a serpent person
and have to deal with the fact that
maybe people just don't trust you our
have to work harder to to gain their
trust and maybe eventually they you know
overcome their difficulties and it's all
good and blah blah blah having that in
your back pocket is certainly pretty fun
a fun suggestion place at the right
moment can stave off so many combat you
know just tell someone can you just
take a lap please just walk away that's
my favorite one for suggestion just just
walk away just put down your weapon and
walk away you don't even have to fight I
just love the open-ended yeah you have
to follow this for eight hours
it's a powerful spell it's cool that it
sort of like reinforces there are sort
of themes of course all these things can
be changed up and made more specific to
your specific type of yan tea but of
course when you do that much stuff to
your own body with magic
you're gonna develop some resistance
you're gonna you're gonna build up that
resistance a bit so that's maybe why the
pure bullets can't go full snake magic
resistance is one of those abilities
that changes practically every edition
of D&D
it used to be like a percentile that you
just like rolled and you had to get
above it after that it was sort of like
a static number that you had to get
above on a caster check there have been
spells of the Lord or whatever and now
in fifth edition it's just sort of it
began I advantage on safes versus magic
or save versus spells and spell like
effects and on the one hand I miss the
old school oh yeah you didn't I've got
95 percent magic resistance not touching
me because it also was like yeah I that
means I cannot benefit from good from
beneficial spells guy can't be healed I
can't benefit from a haste or a
dimension doors yeah some creatures
could lower it voluntarily but then they
don't have their protection against
against magic there it's a strong
ability in fifth edition but isn't the
like killer ability it's been in Prior
the closest thing I can think of is what
gnome that gets advantage on int
charisma and wisdom saves on magical
effects from this is just you know magic
resistance and if you're playing like an
oath of ancients paladin you could also
have resistance to magic damage I mean I
went to a conquest but I can see that I
like clothes of ancients just because
the resistance to magic damage or
ability and just like the theme of that
style of paladin an ancient kind of like
tree Viper or something like that you
know when those ones that there's coils
of world he's been trying to fracture a
part since the beginning and only by my
coils am i keeping it together it's sort
of like an opposite of the the serpent
choose you know gnaws at the roots of
the world tree it's the serpent protects
the world tree that could be the secret
hidden truth yeah that the millions they
have perverted for their own propaganda
against stupid mammalians of course they
have poison immunity
yeah the immune to the poison condition
yes which you know that takes care of
that poison condition is like the
feature of a lot of low-level monsters
and mid-level monsters as well and just
like bee and it's some nasty effects
come along with with poison you know
it's one of those things where you know
I'm not sure if you're a DM out there
poisoning your enemy's weapons can and
probably should if it's appropriate and
this is I've suppose that and this is
just one it's like yeah I don't want to
be knocked unconscious by this thing I
wanted to take an extra 12 d6 and damage
I don't want to have to deal with all
this just give me the weapon and and you
know don't worry about it given how
common poison is I can see it coming up
huh quite a bit and of course languages
you know common abyssal jerk on it
because that you know they're there God
is kind of evil they're kind of
descendant from dragons if they're more
serpentine I mean it's it's whatever you
know I would let them you know speak
with serpents and and talk with them I'd
let them do all kinds of serpent magic
adjacent things you just like reinforce
the flavor of them everything I love you
auntie and I I've tried to work them
into every setting that I have I tried
to find a place for them
mostly because I do think they make
great villains look at him just a little
bit differently you don't like have them
be always wicked always evil and you're
just having more alien and unknowable
and weird that's closer to how I have
the the auntie planet Starbound they
haven't gotten there yet
it's like falsi doom not evil just more
hedonistic not so much evil yes so I'm
sure L real love and of course there are
the you aunty fertility cults you should
never forget about those never forget
about a good fertility call never forget
about a good breeding pit if you liked
the video give it a thumbs up and
subscribe if you need more web DM talk
we've got a podcast and a whole lot more
on our patreon we just talked to
Wolfgang Bower in the head of COBOL
press about DMD his career and more it's
available free so download it now oh and
he gave our patrons a huge discount on
some great stuff too
link here and in the description
[Applause]
[Laughter]
trash batch of cookies today
really sure they were just really thank
you myself Oh bill mater's blessings be
upon you appreciate it thank you very
much I really do I like going on there
and if you talk to em over there she can
probably give you a cookie that I made
this morning so the Sphinx
you know support system uh-huh it's
pretty infallible right I mean they want
to kill a couple of I'm sure I have four
spaces that take us to the section of
the city and I know but if I walk in the
building would you still be able to hear
it because I was gonna walk in there
behind hills from the mist and then turn
around I mean I don't want to be too
intrusive because I don't want to mess
with her with their vibe